In this demo,
we're going to take a quick look at behavior-driven
development in action by walking through the scenario I
mentioned in the previous section.
Unlike all the other tests we have written,
which are located within the application they are testing,
for acceptance tests,
we will actually locate them in their own separate
project called acceptance-tests.
This is because these tests will span multiple applications,
so it wouldn't make sense to locate these tests in any individual application.
In a POM file, we must add the dependencies cucumber-spring and cucumber-junit.
Next, we need to write out the feature file.
I created one already called Room_Booking.
feature, which, as mentioned,
covers the scenario I talked about in a previous
section of a user booking a room.
To have Cucumber generate code based off this feature file,
we simply need to add the create RunCukesTest class,
and add the RunWith Cucumber annotation and CucumberOptions annotation.
As we have not implemented this feature,
when we run this test,
cucumber will print the stubs of these tests in the console.
In ExistingCustomerBooksRoom, I've already begun implementing these tests.
If I run the RunCukesTest class again, it will instead execute these tests.
These tests fail because the services currently are not running.
Starting up the services and running the tests again, the tests begin to pass.
Adding in the code for the When test will start to exercise
the room and booking services as well.
One big difference from acceptance testing from other types of
automated testing is whereas other automated tests seek to be
highly isolated from other tests,
allowing them to be run in any order and over and over again without issue,
acceptance tests can and often will share state between tests.
In the Given, I am retrieving an existing user.
In the When, I am using that user when I'm creating a new booking.
Finally here in the Then, I'm looking up the booking to confirm it was created.
Great, all these tests are passing.
Acceptance testing often goes hand in hand with end-to-end testing.
While when used in BDD acceptance testing can make up an
intimate part of the development process,
acceptance testing appropriately sits as the capstone
of the automated testing pyramid,
as acceptance tests may be covering the entire system.
In this example, we have completed just one scenario in our room booking feature,
but there are many more such scenarios,
such as a customer attempting to book an already occupied room,
or a customer wanting to cancel a booking.
There are of course others as well.
BDD can be a very useful practice when developing an application.
It serves as a guide for driving the development of an application,
also having all the features in scenarios written out in an easy-to-read
format provides useful documentation for future developers,
as well as reminders of features that still need to be written and scenarios that need to be covered.